p8105_hw6_ay2600.md, before:

Data Science I HW 6
================
Hingling Yu
2023-11-29

## Problem 2

### Fetching and preparing weather data

``` r
weather_df = 
  rnoaa::meteo_pull_monitors(
    c("USW00094728"),
    var = c("PRCP", "TMIN", "TMAX"), 
    date_min = "2022-01-01",
    date_max = "2022-12-31") |>
  mutate(
    name = recode(id, USW00094728 = "CentralPark_NY"),
    tmin = tmin / 10,
    tmax = tmax / 10) |>
  select(name, id, everything())
```

    ## using cached file: /Users/angelyu/Library/Caches/org.R-project.R/R/rnoaa/noaa_ghcnd/USW00094728.dly

    ## date created (size, mb): 2023-10-05 22:48:04.670997 (8.534)

    ## file min/max dates: 1869-01-01 / 2023-10-31

### Create bootstrap function

``` r
set.seed(2)
sample_bootstrap = 
  function(data_frame) {
    data_frame %>% sample_frac(replace = TRUE)
  }
```

### Create 5000 bootstrap samples

``` r
bootstrap_data = 
  weather_df %>%  
  modelr::bootstrap(n = 5000) %>% 
  mutate(
    lm_models = map(strap, ~lm(tmax ~ tmin + prcp, data = .)),
    beta_glance = map(lm_models, broom::glance),
    beta_tidy = map(lm_models, broom::tidy)) %>% 
  unnest(beta_glance, beta_tidy) %>% 
  select(.id, term, estimate, r.squared) %>% 
  pivot_wider(
    names_from = term, 
    values_from = estimate
  ) %>% 
  rename(
    beta_0 = `(Intercept)`,
    beta_1 = tmin,
    beta_2 = prcp
  )
```

### Confidence interval for $\hat{r}^2$

``` r
r_squared_ci = 
  bootstrap_data %>%
  select(r.squared) %>%
  summarize(
    ci_lower = quantile(r.squared, 0.025),
    ci_upper = quantile(r.squared, 0.975)
  )

r_squared_ci
```

    ## # A tibble: 1 × 2
    ##   ci_lower ci_upper
    ##      <dbl>    <dbl>
    ## 1    0.889    0.941

### Plotting distribution of $\hat{r}^2$

``` r
bootstrap_data %>%
  select(r.squared) %>%
  ggplot(aes(x = r.squared)) + 
  geom_density(fill = "pink", color = "black") + 
  labs(
    title = "Density of R-Squared Bootstrap Estimates",
    x = "R-squared Estimate",
    y = "Density"
  )
```

![](p8105_hw6_ay2600_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-5-1.png)<!-- -->

### Confidence interval for $\log(\hat{\beta}_1 \ast \hat{\beta}_2)$

``` r
bootstrap_log_values = 
  bootstrap_data %>% 
  mutate(
    log_beta_product = log(beta_0 * beta_1)
  )

# Confidence interval log_beta
log_beta_ci = 
  bootstrap_log_values %>%
  select(log_beta_product) %>% 
  summarize(
    ci_lower = quantile(log_beta_product, 0.025),
    ci_upper = quantile(log_beta_product, 0.975)
  )

log_beta_ci
```

    ## # A tibble: 1 × 2
    ##   ci_lower ci_upper
    ##      <dbl>    <dbl>
    ## 1     2.06     2.14

### Plot distribution for log(beta_0 \* beta_1)

``` r
bootstrap_log_values %>%
  select(log_beta_product) %>%
  ggplot(aes(x = log_beta_product)) + 
  geom_density(fill = "lightblue", color = "black") + 
  labs(
    title = "Density of Log Beta Product Bootstrap Estimates",
    x = "Log Product Estimate",
    y = "Density"
  )
```

![](p8105_hw6_ay2600_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-7-1.png)<!-- -->

Commit message:

Plot Descriptions for R-squared and log beta products density estimates

p8105_hw6_ay2600.md, after:

Data Science I HW 6
================
Hingling Yu
2023-11-29

## Problem 2

### Fetching and preparing weather data

``` r
weather_df = 
  rnoaa::meteo_pull_monitors(
    c("USW00094728"),
    var = c("PRCP", "TMIN", "TMAX"), 
    date_min = "2022-01-01",
    date_max = "2022-12-31") |>
  mutate(
    name = recode(id, USW00094728 = "CentralPark_NY"),
    tmin = tmin / 10,
    tmax = tmax / 10) |>
  select(name, id, everything())
```

    ## using cached file: /Users/angelyu/Library/Caches/org.R-project.R/R/rnoaa/noaa_ghcnd/USW00094728.dly

    ## date created (size, mb): 2023-10-05 22:48:04.670997 (8.534)

    ## file min/max dates: 1869-01-01 / 2023-10-31

### Create bootstrap function

``` r
set.seed(2)
sample_bootstrap = 
  function(data_frame) {
    data_frame %>% sample_frac(replace = TRUE)
  }
```

### Create 5000 bootstrap samples

``` r
bootstrap_data = 
  weather_df %>%  
  modelr::bootstrap(n = 5000) %>% 
  mutate(
    lm_models = map(strap, ~lm(tmax ~ tmin + prcp, data = .)),
    beta_glance = map(lm_models, broom::glance),
    beta_tidy = map(lm_models, broom::tidy)) %>% 
  unnest(beta_glance, beta_tidy) %>% 
  select(.id, term, estimate, r.squared) %>% 
  pivot_wider(
    names_from = term, 
    values_from = estimate
  ) %>% 
  rename(
    beta_0 = `(Intercept)`,
    beta_1 = tmin,
    beta_2 = prcp
  )
```

### Confidence interval for $\hat{r}^2$

``` r
r_squared_ci = 
  bootstrap_data %>%
  select(r.squared) %>%
  summarize(
    ci_lower = quantile(r.squared, 0.025),
    ci_upper = quantile(r.squared, 0.975)
  )

r_squared_ci
```

    ## # A tibble: 1 × 2
    ##   ci_lower ci_upper
    ##      <dbl>    <dbl>
    ## 1    0.889    0.941

### Plotting distribution of $\hat{r}^2$

``` r
bootstrap_data %>%
  select(r.squared) %>%
  ggplot(aes(x = r.squared)) + 
  geom_density(fill = "pink", color = "black") + 
  labs(
    title = "Density of R-Squared Bootstrap Estimates",
    x = "R-squared Estimate",
    y = "Density"
  )
```

![](p8105_hw6_ay2600_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-5-1.png)<!-- -->
\### Plot Description $\hat{r}^2$

- The distribution appears to be skewed left, indicating that most of
  the bootstrap samples resulted in $R^2$ values closer to the higher
  end of the scale, with fewer samples showing lower $R^2$. The peak of
  the density is around 0.92, suggesting that the linear model explains
  a substantial portion of the variance in the maximum temperature based
  on the minimum temperature, on most occasions.

### Confidence interval for $\log(\hat{\beta}_0 \ast \hat{\beta}_1)$

``` r
bootstrap_log_values = 
  bootstrap_data %>% 
  mutate(
    log_beta_product = log(beta_0 * beta_1)
  )

# Confidence interval log_beta
log_beta_ci = 
  bootstrap_log_values %>%
  select(log_beta_product) %>% 
  summarize(
    ci_lower = quantile(log_beta_product, 0.025),
    ci_upper = quantile(log_beta_product, 0.975)
  )

log_beta_ci
```

    ## # A tibble: 1 × 2
    ##   ci_lower ci_upper
    ##      <dbl>    <dbl>
    ## 1     2.06     2.14

### Plot distribution for $\log(\hat{\beta}_1 \ast \hat{\beta}_2)$

``` r
bootstrap_log_values %>%
  select(log_beta_product) %>%
  ggplot(aes(x = log_beta_product)) + 
  geom_density(fill = "lightblue", color = "black") + 
  labs(
    title = "Density of Log Beta Product Bootstrap Estimates",
    x = "Log Product Estimate",
    y = "Density"
  )
```

![](p8105_hw6_ay2600_files/figure-gfm/unnamed-chunk-7-1.png)<!-- -->

### Plot Description

- This plot displays the density of the logarithm of the product of two
  regression coefficients,$\beta_{tmin}$ and $\beta_{prcp}$. This
  distribution seems fairly symmetrical and bell-shaped, centering
  around 2.10, indicating that the log-transformed product of the
  coefficients varies less and is more consistent across bootstrap
  samples compared to the $R^2$ values.
